doc/index.rst, before:

.. PGZero documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Apr 14 16:09:10 2015.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to Pygame Zero
======================

Pygame Zero is for creating games without boilerplate.

It is intended for use in education, so that teachers can teach basic
programming without needing to explain the Pygame API or write an event loop.


Courses
-------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    introduction
    from-scratch

.. This one is not yet complete
.. learn-programming
.. flappy-bird

Reference
---------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 3

    hooks
    builtins

User Guide
----------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    installation
    ide-mode
    other-libs
    changelog


Stickers by |Sticker Mule|
--------------------------

.. |Sticker Mule| image:: _static/sticker-mule.svg
    :alt: Sticker Mule
    :height: 40
    :target: https://www.stickermule.com/supports/opensource

`Sticker Mule`_ have graciously offered to provide Pygame Zero laptop stickers
for learners.

.. _`Sticker Mule`: https://www.stickermule.com/supports/opensource

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 3

    stickers


Improving Pygame Zero
---------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    roadmap
    principles
    contributing

Commit message:

Add banner for PyWeek to docs

doc/index.rst, after:

.. PGZero documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Tue Apr 14 16:09:10 2015.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

Welcome to Pygame Zero
======================

Pygame Zero is for creating games without boilerplate.

It is intended for use in education, so that teachers can teach basic
programming without needing to explain the Pygame API or write an event loop.


Courses
-------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    introduction
    from-scratch

.. This one is not yet complete
.. learn-programming
.. flappy-bird

Reference
---------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 3

    hooks
    builtins

User Guide
----------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    installation
    ide-mode
    other-libs
    changelog

.. rst-class:: pyweek

    .. tip::

        .. image:: _static/pyweek.png
            :alt: Pyweek Game Jam
            :height: 50
            :target: https://pyweek.org/

        If you're ready to try writing a full game, an event to look out for is
        PyWeek_, which happens twice a year at https://pyweek.org/.

        It's an online game programming challenge: you have a week to write a
        game in Python, using Pygame Zero or other libraries. Lots of other
        people will be writing games too, and you can watch their progress and
        play and rate the finished results after the competition.

.. _PyWeek: https://pyweek.org/


Stickers by |Sticker Mule|
--------------------------

.. |Sticker Mule| image:: _static/sticker-mule.svg
    :alt: Sticker Mule
    :height: 40
    :target: https://www.stickermule.com/supports/opensource

`Sticker Mule`_ have graciously offered to provide Pygame Zero laptop stickers
for learners.

.. _`Sticker Mule`: https://www.stickermule.com/supports/opensource

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 3

    stickers


Improving Pygame Zero
---------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    roadmap
    principles
    contributing
